README.md, before:

## Hello Web App: Intro to web app development using Python and Django

Hi, I'm Tracy! This is the GitHub repository for [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com)'s open source files. Hello Web App is a book to walk right-brained and new programmers through the process of building their first web app using Python and Django. Anticipated release in July 2014 for both the  e-book and paperback book. Sign up to be informed of updates at [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com).

### Kickstarter!

[Hello Web App is raising funds with
Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1868398473/hello-web-app-intro-to-building-web-apps-with-djan),
with a bunch of fun rewards depending on donation amount!

Make sure to check out the dorky outtakes at the end of the video.

### Contents

Starting your project:

* [How to install Python](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/installation-instructions)
* [Learning Python resources](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/python-tips) - Must have very basic Python and logic knowledge before jumping into Hello Web App.
* [Starting your Django project](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/blob/master/installation-instructions/starting-your-project.md)

Miscellaneous help:

* [Command line tips](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/command-line-tips)
* [Using Git](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/git-tips)
* [IRC tips](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/irc-tips)

### Introduction to Hello Web App 

In January 2011, [I taught myself Python and Django and launched my first web app in six weeks](http://www.limedaring.com/im-a-designer-who-learned-django-and-launched-her-first-webapp-in-6-weeks/).

Three years later, this web app has evolved into my startup, [WeddingLovely](http://weddinglovely.com) (a part of [500 Startups](http://500.co) and the [Designer Fund](http://designerfund.com)) - I've designed and built the entire company and LOVE web app development!

Learning to code was so frustrating, especially as a right-brained designer with no back-end programming experience. Tutorials assumed I was comfortable with the command line, knew what a model-view-template architecture was, and already had a grasp on programming tools and resources. 

I want to build a introduction to web app programming using Django and Python which assumes absolutely no programming knowledge - down-to-earth explanations of programming terms and basic walkthroughs of using important programming utilities like git (for version control), GitHub (for backups), virtualenv (for virtual environments), and others. The book will also emphasize templates first - getting to the visual, web-app view first to see results rather than using the command line.

Requirements will be a very basic overview of Python and programming concepts and basic HTML/CSS knowledge, with recommendations for resources to learn those components quickly. The book will be useful with anyone with these requirements, but I'm also especially interested in young coders, women coders, and designers who want to learn how to launch a web app.

The e-book will also be released DRM-free.

Follow and ask me questions on Twitter ([@limedaring](http://twitter.com/limedaring)) and follow the project directly at [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com).

### License

The information in this repository is licensed under the terms of the MIT
license. This does not apply to the information in the Hello Web App book, which
is copyrighted. :)

Commit message:

Added link to HWA Code repo

README.md, after:

## Hello Web App: Intro to web app development using Python and Django

Hi, I'm Tracy! This is the GitHub repository for [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com)'s open source files. Hello Web App is a book to walk right-brained and new programmers through the process of building their first web app using Python and Django. Anticipated release in July 2014 for both the  e-book and paperback book. Sign up to be informed of updates at [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com).

### Contents

Starting your project:

* [How to install Python](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/installation-instructions)
* [Learning Python resources](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/python-tips) - Must have very basic Python and logic knowledge before jumping into Hello Web App.
* [Starting your Django project](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/blob/master/installation-instructions/starting-your-project.md)

Walk through the code in Hello Web App's chapters here:

* [Hello Web App Code](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp-Code)

Miscellaneous help:

* [Command line tips](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/command-line-tips)
* [Using Git](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/git-tips)
* [IRC tips](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/irc-tips)

### Kickstarter!

[Hello Web App successfully raised funds with
Kickstarter!](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1868398473/hello-web-app-intro-to-building-web-apps-with-djan),
Thank you to *all* of our supporters.

### Introduction to Hello Web App 

In January 2011, [I taught myself Python and Django and launched my first web app in six weeks](http://www.limedaring.com/im-a-designer-who-learned-django-and-launched-her-first-webapp-in-6-weeks/).

Three years later, this web app has evolved into my startup, [WeddingLovely](http://weddinglovely.com) (a part of [500 Startups](http://500.co) and the [Designer Fund](http://designerfund.com)) - I've designed and built the entire company and LOVE web app development!

Learning to code was so frustrating, especially as a right-brained designer with no back-end programming experience. Tutorials assumed I was comfortable with the command line, knew what a model-view-template architecture was, and already had a grasp on programming tools and resources. 

I want to build a introduction to web app programming using Django and Python which assumes absolutely no programming knowledge - down-to-earth explanations of programming terms and basic walkthroughs of using important programming utilities like git (for version control), GitHub (for backups), virtualenv (for virtual environments), and others. The book will also emphasize templates first - getting to the visual, web-app view first to see results rather than using the command line.

Requirements will be a very basic overview of Python and programming concepts and basic HTML/CSS knowledge, with recommendations for resources to learn those components quickly. The book will be useful with anyone with these requirements, but I'm also especially interested in young coders, women coders, and designers who want to learn how to launch a web app.

The e-book will also be released DRM-free.

Follow and ask me questions on Twitter ([@limedaring](http://twitter.com/limedaring)) and follow the project directly at [HelloWebApp.com](http://hellowebapp.com).

### License

The information in this repository is licensed under the terms of the MIT
license. This does not apply to the information in the Hello Web App book, which
is copyrighted. :)
