pycon-tutorial/README.md, before:

# PyCon Tutorial

Hello Web App's material will be tested at [PyCon US
2014](https://us.pycon.org/2014/) in Montreal in a three hour tutorial (yay!)

Here's the tentative outline for the course, which is pretty much the exact
outline of the upcoming Hello Web App book. We probably won't cover all topics
but they're here just in case:

* Introductions
* Best practices for planning your web app.
    * MVPs
    * How to narrow down your scope.
    * How launch quickly and why.
* What we're going to build in the tutorial.
* Review of pre-requisites and making sure everyone is ready.
    * Very basic knowledge of Python and logic.
        * [Resources to learn](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/python-tips)
    * Python must already be installed.
        * [Use this guide to install](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/installation-instructions).
    * Django installed
        * [Guide](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/blob/master/installation-instructions/starting-your-project.md)
* Launching the Django application
* Playing with templates
    * Setting up the web page
        * Basic views.
    * Adding static files
    * Inheritance
    * Named URLs
    * Fun with template tags
* Adding dynamic data
    * Set up the model
    * What are migrations and why
    * Checking out the Django admin
* Viewing our database items in the template
    * Adding database queries to our view.
    * Filtering fun.
* Adding more pages to our website
    * Homepage
    * Filtered pages / search
    * Contact form
        * Fun with forms.py
    * Error pages
* Editing model information in the website using forms.py

(More coming soon!)

Commit message:

updated readme with link to resources doc

pycon-tutorial/README.md, after:

# PyCon tutorial

Hello Web App's material will be tested at [PyCon US
2014](https://us.pycon.org/2014/) in Montreal in a three hour tutorial (yay!)

Here's the tentative outline for the course, which is pretty much the exact
outline of the upcoming Hello Web App book. We probably won't cover all topics
but they're here just in case:

* Introductions
* Best practices for planning your web app.
    * MVPs
    * How to narrow down your scope.
    * How launch quickly and why.
* What we're going to build in the tutorial.
* Review of pre-requisites and making sure everyone is ready.
    * Very basic knowledge of Python and logic.
        * [Resources to learn](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/python-tips)
    * Python must already be installed.
        * [Use this guide to install](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/tree/master/installation-instructions).
    * Django installed
        * [Guide](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/blob/master/installation-instructions/starting-your-project.md)
* Launching the Django application
* Playing with templates
    * Setting up the web page
        * Basic views.
    * Adding static files
    * Inheritance
    * Named URLs
    * Fun with template tags
* Adding dynamic data
    * Set up the model
    * What are migrations and why
    * Checking out the Django admin
* Viewing our database items in the template
    * Adding database queries to our view.
    * Filtering fun.
* Adding more pages to our website
    * Homepage
    * Filtered pages / search
    * Contact form
        * Fun with forms.py
    * Error pages
* Editing model information in the website using forms.py

(More coming soon!)

## After the tutorial

Check out [this document for more resources and other tutorials to continue your
programming
education](https://github.com/limedaring/HelloWebApp/blob/master/pycon-tutorial/additional-resources.md)
(big thanks for the folks at [Django Hack &
Learn](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/django-hack-learn-tickets-9900931954) for
helping compile this document.)
